{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red237\green237\blue237;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww31060\viewh12120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl352

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -fe --featExtract
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\

\b0 only extract features without training the classifier \
\'91
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -l --length
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
length (in seconds) of each soundfile from which features will be extracted. A length of -1.0 indicates that the entire duration of the file should be used (the default behavior) \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'91
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -n --normalization
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
apply normalization to audio signal \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl352
\cf2 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'91
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -timbral --TimbralFeatures
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
Time ZeroCrossings, Spectral Centroid, Flux and Rolloff, and Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC). Equivalent to -mfcc -zcrs -ctd -rlf -flx. This also the default extracted feature set. \

\i \'91
\f3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -spfe --SpectralFeatures
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
Spectral Centroid, Flux and Rolloff. Equivalent to -zcrs -ctd -rlf -flx. 
\i0 \

\b \'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -mfcc --MelFrequencyCepstralCoefficients
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\

\b0 Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients. \
\'91
\f2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -chroma --Chroma
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\

\b \'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -ctd --SpectralCentroid
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -rlf -- SpectralCentroid
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -flx --SpectralFlux
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -zcrs --ZeroCrossings
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -sfm --SpectralFlatnessMeasure
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -scf --SpectralCrestFactor
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -lsp --LineSpectralPair
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -lpcc --LinearPredictionCepstralCoefficients
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl352\sa240
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 By default stereo files are donwmixed to mono by summing the two channels before extracting features. However, bextract also supports the extraction of feature based on stereo information. There are feature sets that can only be extracted from stereo files. In addition it is possible to use any of the feature sets described above and extract features for both left and right channels that are concatenated to form a feature vector.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl352

\b \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -spsf --StereoPanningSpectrumFeatures
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\
\'91
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 -st --stereo
\f0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'92\

\b0 Calculate whatever feature sets are activated for both left and right channels.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl352\sa240
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 For example the first command below calculates MFCC for both left and right channels. The second command calculates the Stereo Panning Spectrum Features which require both channels and also the Spectral Centroid for both left and right.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl352

\f2 \cf2 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0      bextract -st -mfcc mymusic.mf -w mymusic.arff\
     bextract -spsf -st --SpectralCentroid -w mymusic.arff\
\
\
\

\f1\b FINAL COMMAND: 
\f4\fs22 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \outl0\strokewidth0 bextract -sv -spsf -st --TimbralFeatures -fe combinedAsmrNot.mf -w combinedSmallSet.arff
\f2\b0\fs24 \cf2 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
}